GH-133711: Enable UTF-8 mode by default (PEP 686) (#133712)
python/cpython: Doc/library/os.rst

.. versionadded:: 3.7
   See :pep:`540` for more details.

.. versionchanged:: next

   Python UTF-8 mode is now enabled by default (:pep:`686`).
   It may be disabled with by setting :envvar:`PYTHONUTF8=0 <PYTHONUTF8>` as

>    an environment variable or by using the :option:`-X utf8=0 <-X>` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   an environment variable or by using the :option:`-X utf8=0 <-X>` command line option.
```

  default so that attempting to open a binary file in text mode is likely
  to raise an exception rather than producing nonsense data.

The :ref:`Python UTF-8 Mode <utf8-mode>` is enabled by default.

> It can be disabled using the :option:`-X utf8 <-X>` command line
> option or the :envvar:`PYTHONUTF8` environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be disabled using the :option:`-X utf8=0 <-X>` command line
option or the :envvar:`PYTHONUTF8=0 <PYTHONUTF8>` environment variable.
```

The Python UTF-8 Mode can only be disabled at Python startup. Its value
can be read from :data:`sys.flags.utf8_mode <sys.flags>`.

If the UTF-8 mode is disabled, the interpreter defaults to using
the current locale settings, *unless* the current locale is identified
as a legacy ASCII-based locale (as described for :envvar:`PYTHONCOERCECLOCALE`),

> and locale coercion is either disabled or fails.

Reviewer: Is [PEP 538: Coercing the legacy C locale to a UTF-8 based locale](https://peps.python.org/pep-0538/) still relevant if UTF-8 mode is enabled by default? It may make disabling the UTF-8 mode more complicated. It's just an open question, I don't have the answer.

Reviewer 2: When UTF-8 mode is disabled:

* If locale is not C or POSIX: locale encoding is used.
* If locale is C or POSIX and PYTHONCOERCELOCALE is not set, locale is changed to C.UTF-8.
  * Although UTF-8 mode is disabled, locale encoding is UTF-8.
* If locale is C or POSIX and PYTHONCOERCELOCALE is set, locale encoding will be ASCII.
